# Fiber-Optic-Voice-Transmission
The objective is to send a sinusoidal analog signal using a microphone through a fiber optic cable via LED. This will then be received by a photodiode, amplified, then sent to a speaker. The key concept is to replicate a waveform using the intensity of the light in the received circuit. Photodiodes vary in conductivity based off of the intensity of light that is making contact with the component. By modulating the light intensity, a waveform similar to what is being passed through the LED can be produced by the photodiode. 

Our first step was to create a transmitter circuit that sends the voice signal with an LED. To do this, we implemented a clamping circuit with an offset voltage large enough to to turn on an LED to its minimum brightness. Depending on which LED was tested, the offset voltage was anywhere between 2-6V. Ultimately, we decided to use a white LED, our theory being that it would send the strongest signal. Getting the transmitter to work as desired was a simple process, with little to no difficulty.

Once we obtained an offset signal over our LED, we used an OPT210 (photodiode with amplifier) to create a receiver. Using the OPT210’s datasheet, we built the standard test circuit that was listed as our receiver. Various resistors and capacitors were tested in our feedback loop to prevent noise from intruding on our received signal, but we decided on using a 1MΩ resistor. Regardless of whatever we decided to use, a small amount of noise was introduced via unidentified external sources. This meant our transmitted signal was modulating a noise signal coming from the OPT210. We decided to use a Low-Pass filter using a 10nF capacitor and a 510Ω resistor to keep the signals coming through below 20kHz. Even with all these considerations, we still had a 60hz hum being introduced in the circuit that we could not prevent unless we wanted to implement an isolation transformer.

Our final step was to implement amplifiers that would make the signal coming from our microphone stronger (therefore easier to transmit) and increase the magnitude of our received signal. Between the microphone and transmitter, an inverting op-amp with a gain of 100 boosted our microphone signal. Between the receiver and speaker, two amplifiers were used. The first was another inverting op-amp (gain 47) while the other was a premade class AB push-pull amplifier with a variable gain. The three amplifiers were enough to obtain an audible voice signal through the speaker.
